>> The idea of life on Mars
has long captured imaginations
of people around the world.
Now we may be closer than ever
to finding out whether life
might have once existed there.
This is "Gaia News."
February 18, 2021, a trip which
began 203 days prior culminates
in a tense seven-minute
final descent,
as the Rover "Perseverance"
makes its way
to the surface of
the Red Planet,
landing in Jezero Crater,
the most challenging
Martian terrain ever
targeted for landing.
The most advanced
Rover NASA has ever
sent to another world is
the essential component
of an unprecedented attempt to
find signs of microbial life
on the planet, which is why
"Perseverance" was landed
on an ancient lakebed and river
delta, where it will collect
rock and sediment
samples to be sent back
to Earth for analysis.
Robert Zubrin,
aerospace engineer,
author, and founder of the
Mars Society, on the mission.
>> The "Perseverance"
is carrying three things
of extraordinary interest.
One is a microscope to look
for fossils of microbes on Mars
to help begin the
process of discovering
if we're alone in the universe.
The second is an experiment
in making rocket fuel
on Mars, which is what is
necessary to send humans
to Mars.
And the third is a helicopter.
The Rovers we've
sent to Mars so far--
they crawl along the ground.
They can do a couple of
hundred yards in a day.
A helicopter could do a couple
hundred kilometers in a day.
If this works, it's going
to increase our exploration
capability a thousand-fold.
>> What will it mean
if "Perseverance"
finds fossils in Jezero Crater?
>> If we find fossils
on the surface,
that's a pretty good bet
there's life underground.
And that means we should
send humans to Mars
and really find out the truth
about the potential prevalence
and diversity of
life in the universe.
>> "Perseverance" is the third
aircraft to land on Mars within
the month of February.
Just a few weeks earlier, craft
from China and the United Arab
Emirates arrived on
the planet, beginning
what scientists hope could
be a new wave of exploration.
These countries all took
advantage of a limited time
period, which happens
every few years when
Mars is closest to Earth.
While the pace of Mars
exploration has just picked up,
NASA has been sending spacecraft
to the planet for decades.
And some say evidence
for past life on Mars
has been around
for a lot longer.
George Haas, Mars researcher and
author of "The Cydonia Codex,"
explains.
>> And through all of our
research over 20 years,
we found overwhelming
evidence of structures.
There are cities in
the Cydonia area,
the Elysium area, and
also in Utopia area.
The current "Perseverance"
Rover that is going to Mars
is not landing in
any of the areas that
have these so-called cities,
like the Cydonia area and some
of the areas in Elysium that
has the Raptor Zone Complex.
The Rovers are going
nowhere near these areas.
>> Despite the different
theories out there,
all researchers have high
hopes for the future of Mars
exploration.
The most imminent is getting
humans to the planet.
>> I think we're going to
be on Mars within 10 years.
And as we are talking
right now, Elon Musk
is preparing another test
flight of his Starship, which
is a reusable heavy-lift rocket
that about the same capability
as the Saturn V moon
rocket we went to the moon
in, except that that
was a throwaway rocket.
This is a reusable rocket, so
it can get the same payload
to orbit as the Saturn
V, but at 1% the cost.
And with that as our
tool, humans to Mars
is going to become
an imminent reality.
Now I think that if
"Perseverance" finds fossils
of life on Mars, that's
going to greatly up
the interested in sending
human explorers there.
If Starship,
succeeds that's going
to make it possible to
send human explorers there.
And we'll probably
also, well before 2030,
if ingenuity succeeds, send
some big helicopters to Mars
and start really exploring Mars
in a way these Rovers can't
possibly do.
Maybe the first
unmanned starship
will land on Mars around 2028.
We'll have robots that can
walk around like people.
They'll be machines in the same
sense that "Perseverance" is,
but they will have
the kind of mobility
that a person or
perhaps a dog has.
You could deliver 100
of these robots to Mars
and have them build a base.
And then in 2030, we
send the astronauts.
And all they got to do is bring
a credit card and check in.
>> Could this then lead
to colonizing Mars?
Robert Zubrin has been
pushing for this for years.
>> We go to Mars, we're
talking about the first step
in becoming a multi-planet
spacefaring species.
200 years from now, there
will be new nations on Mars--
new nations with new
languages and literatures
and traditions and
ideas of government
and social organization--
because that's
what we're talking about here.
We're talking about a
fundamental transformation
in the nature of humanity from
a single planet to a spacefaring
species.
And that is something grand.
And if you have in your power
to do something truly grand,
then you should.
>> As the latest Mars
missions progress,
the world waits to see if they
will yield definitive answers
to one of the most profound
questions in modern science.
Are we alone?
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."